The Project Gutenberg EBook of The West Indies: Being a Description of the
Islands, Progress of Christianity, Educatio, by Nancy Gardner Prince

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The West Indies: Being a Description of the Islands, Progress of Christianity, Education, and Liberty Among the Colored Population Generally

Author: Nancy Gardner Prince

Release Date: September 16, 2020 [EBook #63216]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WEST INDIES ***




Produced by Mary Glenn Krause and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by the
Library of Congress)










                            THE WEST INDIES:

                   BEING A DESCRIPTION OF THE ISLANDS,

                  PROGRESS OF CHRISTIANITY, EDUCATION,
                               AND LIBERTY

                 AMONG THE COLORED POPULATION GENERALLY.

                             [Illustration]

                         _BY MRS. NANCY PRINCE._

                                 BOSTON:
               DOW & JACKSON, PRINTERS, 14 DEVONSHIRE ST.
                                  1841.




WEST INDIES.


A denomination under which is comprehended a large chain of islands,
extended in a curve from the Florida shore on the northern peninsula of
America, to the Gulf of Venezuela on the southern. These islands belong
to five European powers, viz. Great Britain, Spain, France, Holland and
Denmark. An inhabitant of New England can form no idea of the climate and
the productions of these islands. Many of the particulars that are here
mentioned, are peculiar to them all.

The climate in all the West India Islands is nearly the same, allowing
for those accidental differences, which the several situations and
qualities of the lands themselves produce; as they lie within the tropic
of Cancer, and the sun often is almost at the meridian, over their heads,
they are continually subjected to a heat that would be intolerable,
but for the trade winds, which are so refreshing, as to enable the
inhabitants to attend to their concerns, even under a noon-day sun: as
the night advances, a breeze begins to be perceived, which blows smartly
from the land, as it were, from the centre towards the sea, to all points
of the compass at once. The rains make the only distinction of seasons in
these islands. The trees are green the year round; they have no cold, or
frost; our heaviest rains are but dews, comparatively: with them, floods
of water are poured from the clouds. About May, the periodical rains from
the South may be expected. After then the tropical summer in all its
splendor. The nights are calm and serene, the moon shines more brightly
than in New England, as do the planets, and the beautiful galaxy.
From the middle of August to the end of September, the heat is most
oppressive, the sea breeze is interrupted, and calms warn the inhabitants
of the periodical rains; which fall in torrents about the beginning of
October.




JAMAICA,


The most considerable and valuable of the British West India Islands,
lies between the 75th and the 79th degrees of west longitude from London,
and between 17 and 18 north latitude; it is of an oval figure, 150
miles long, from East to West, and about 60 miles broad in the middle,
containing 4,080,000 acres. An elevated ridge, called the Blue Mountains,
runs lengthwise from East to West, whence numerous rivers take their rise
on both sides. The year is distinguished into two seasons, wet and dry.
The months of July, August and September are called the hurricane months.
The best houses are generally built low, on account of the hurricanes
and earthquakes; and the colored people’s huts made of reeds, will hold
only two or three persons. However pleasant the sun may rise, in a
moment the scene may be changed, a violent storm will suddenly arise,
attended with thunder and lightning, the rain falls in torrents, and the
seas and rivers rise with terrible destruction. I witnessed this awful
scene in June last at Kingston, the capital of Jamaica; the foundations
of many houses were destroyed; the waters, as they rushed from the
mountains, brought with them the produce of the earth, large branches of
trees, and their fruit together; many persons were drowned endeavoring
to reach their homes from their various occupations; those who reached
their homes were often obliged to travel many miles out of their usual
way. Many young children without a parent’s care, were at this time
destroyed. A poor old woman speaking of these calamities to the writer,
thus expressed herself, “not so bad now as in the time of slavery, then
God spoke very loud to _Bucker_ (the white people) to let us go. Thank
God, ever since that, they give us up, we go pray, and we have it not
so bad like as before.” I would recommend this poor woman’s remark to
the fair sons and daughters of America, the land of the pilgrims. “Then
God spoke very loud.” May these words be engraved on the post of every
door; in this land of New England God speaks very loud, and while his
judgments are in the earth, may the inhabitants learn righteousness!
The mountains that intersect this Island seem composed of rocks thrown
up by frequent earthquakes or volcanoes. These rocks, though having
little soil, are adorned with a great variety of beautiful trees, growing
from the fissures, which are nourished by frequent rains, and flourish
in perpetual spring. From these mountains flow a vast number of small
rivers of pure water, which sometimes fall in cataracts, from stupendous
heights; these, with the brilliant verdure of the trees, form a most
delightful landscape. Ridges of smaller mountains are on each side of
this great chain; on these, coffee grows in great abundance; the valleys
or plains between these ridges, are level beyond what is usually found
in similar situations. The highest land in the Island is Blue mountain
Peak, 7150 feet above the sea. The most extensive plain is 30 miles long
and 5 broad. Black river, in the Parish of St. Elizabeth, is the only one
navigable; flat-boats bring down produce from plantations about 30 miles
up the river. Along the coast, and on the plains the weather is very hot;
but in the mountains, the air is pure and wholesome; the longest days in
summer are about thirteen hours, and the shortest in winter about eleven.
In the plains are found several salt fountains, and in the mountains,
not far from Spanish Town, is a hot bath of great medicinal virtues;
this gives relief in the complaint called the dry bowels malady, which,
excepting the bilious and yellow fevers, is one of the most terrible
distempers of Jamaica. The general produce of this Island is sugar,
rum, molasses, ginger, cotton, indigo, pimento, cocoa, coffees, several
kinds of woods, and medicinal drugs. Fruits are in great plenty, as
oranges, lemons, shaddocks, citrons, pomegranates, pine-apples, melons,
pompions, guavas, and many others. Here are trees whose wood, when dry,
is incorruptible; here is found the wild cinnamon tree, the mahogany, the
cabbage, the palm, yielding an oil much esteemed for food and medicine.
Here too is the soap tree, whose berries are useful in washing. The
plantain is produced in Jamaica in abundance, and is one of the most
agreeable and nutritious vegetables in the world: it grows about four
feet in height, and the fruit grows in clusters, which is filled with a
luscious sweet pulp. The Banana is very similar to the plantain, but not
so sweet. The whole Island is divided into three counties, Middlesex,
Surry, and Cornwall, and these into six towns, twenty parishes, and
twenty-seven villages.

This Island was originally part of the Spanish Empire in America, but it
was taken by the English in 1656. Cromwell had fitted out a squadron
under Penn and Venables, to reduce the Spanish Island of Hispaniola, but
there this squadron was unsuccessful, and the commanders, of their own
accord, to atone for this misfortune, made a descent on Jamaica, and
having arrived at St. Jago, soon compelled the whole Island to surrender.
Ever since, it has been subject to the English, and the government, next
to that of Ireland, is the richest in the disposal of the crown. Point
Royal was formerly the capital of Jamaica, it stood upon the point of
a narrow neck of land, which towards the sea, forms part of the border
of a very fine harbor of its own name. The conveniences of this harbor,
which was capable of containing a thousand sail of large ships, and
of such depth as to allow them to load and unload with the greatest
ease, weighed so much with the inhabitants, that they chose to build
their capital on this spot, although the place was a hot dry sand, and
produced none of the necessaries of life, not even fresh water. About
the beginning of the year 1692, no place for its size could be compared
to this town for trade, wealth, and an entire corruption of manners.
In the month of June in this year, an earthquake which shook the whole
Island to the foundation, totally overwhelmed this city, so as to leave,
in one quarter, not even the smallest vestige remaining. In two minutes
the earth opened and swallowed up nine-tenths of the houses, and two
thousand people. The waters gushed out from the openings of the earth,
and tumbled the people on heaps: some of them had the good fortune to
catch hold of beams and rafters of houses, and were afterwards saved by
boats. Several ships were cast away in the harbor, and the Swan Frigate,
which lay in the Dock, was carried over the tops of sinking houses, and
did not overset, but afforded a retreat to some hundreds of people, who
saved their lives upon her. An officer who was in the town, at that
time, says the earth opened and shut very quick in some places, and he
saw several people sink down to the middle, and others appeared with
their heads just above ground, and were squeezed to death. At Savannah
above a thousand acres were sunk with the houses and people in them,
the places appearing, for some time, like a lake; this was afterwards
dried up, but no houses were seen. In some parts mountains were split,
and at one place a plantation was removed to the distance of a mile. The
inhabitants again rebuilt the city, but it was a second time, ten years
after, destroyed by a great fire. The extraordinary convenience of the
harbor tempted them to build it once more, and once more in 1722, it
was laid in rubbish by a hurricane, the most terrible on record. Such
repeated calamities seemed to mark out this spot as a devoted place;
the inhabitants therefore resolved to forsake it forever, and to reside
at the opposite bay where they built Kingston, which is now the capital
of the Island. In going up to Kingston, we pass over the part of and
between Port Royal, leaving the mountains on the left, and a small town
on the right. There are many handsome houses built there, one story high,
with porticoes, and every convenience for those who are rich enough to
live in them. Not far from Kingston stands Spanish Town, which though
at present is inferior to Kingston, was once the capital of Jamaica,
and is still the seat of Government. On the 3d of October, 1780, there
was a dreadful hurricane, which overwhelmed the little sea-port town of
Savannah la mer, in Jamaica, and part of the adjacent country: very few
houses were left standing, and a great number of lives were lost, much
damage was done also, and many lives lost in other parts of the Island.
The same writer says, the misery and hardships of the slaves were truly
moving; the ill treatment which they received so shortened their lives,
that there is no natural increase of their numbers; many thousand are
annually imported to supply the place of those who pine and die with
the hardships which they receive. It is said, that they are stubborn,
and must be ruled with a rod of iron: it must be borne in mind, that
their tyrants are themselves the dregs of the English nation, and the
refuse of the jails of Europe. In January, 1823, a Society was formed
in London, for mitigating and gradually abolishing slavery, throughout
the British dominions, called the Anti-Slavery Society. His Royal
Highness, the Duke of Gloucester, was President of the Society, in the
list of vice-presidents are the names of many of the most distinguished
philanthropists of the day, and among them, that of the never to be
forgotten Mr. Wilberforce; as a bold champion, we see him going forward,
pleading the cause of our down trodden brethren. In the year 1834, it
pleased God to break the chains from 800,000 human beings that had
been held in a state of personal slavery; and this great event was
effected through the instrumentality of Clarkson, Wilberforce, and other
philanthropists of the day. The population of Jamaica is nearly 400,000,
that of Kingston, the capital, 40,000. There are many places of worship
of various denominations, namely, church of England, and of Scotland,
Wesleyan, the Baptists and Roman Catholics, besides a Jewish Synagogue.
These all differ from those in New England, and from those I have seen
elsewhere. The Baptists hold what they call class-meetings. They have
men and women, deacons and deaconesses in these churches; these hold
separate class-meetings, some of these can read and some cannot. These
are the persons who hold the office of judges, and go round and urge the
people to come at the class, and after they come in twice or three times
they are considered candidates for baptism. Some pay fifty cents, and
some more, for being baptized. The churches take nothing after they are
baptized, they receive a ticket as a passport into the church, paying one
mark, a quarter, or more, and some less, but nothing short of tenpence,
that is, two English shillings a year. They must attend their class once
a week, and pay three pence a week, total twelve English shillings a
year, besides the sums they pay once a month at communion, after service
in the morning. On those occasions the minister retires, and the deacons
examine the people to ascertain if each one has brought a ticket, if
not, they cannot commune; after this, the minister returns and performs
the ceremony, then they give their money, and go. The churches are very
large, holding from four to six thousand, many bring wood and other
presents to their class-leader as a token of their attachment; where
there are so many communicants, these presents, and the money exacted,
must greatly enrich these establishments. I know two who have left their
homes to live with their class-leaders, in order to have her prayers;
most of the communicants are so ignorant of the ordinance that they join
the church merely to have a decent burial; for if they are not members
none will follow them to the grave, no prayers will be said over them;
these are borne through the streets by four men, the coffin a rough box;
not so if they are church members; as soon as the news spreads that one
is dying, all the class with their leader will assemble at the place,
and join in singing hymns; this, they say, is to help the spirit up to
glory; this exercise sometimes continues all night, in so loud a strain,
that it is seldom that any can sleep in the neighborhood.—The next day
they bury their dead, the corpse is borne by four bearers, some of the
deacons preceding, and a great company of men and women following, the
women first, dressed in white, with a strip of white cotton bound round
the head, and falling to the ground. After they have buried their dead,
the company return to the house and have a regular wake: they believe the
spirit of the deceased is present with them for nine days, and they leave
a place for them at the table, and pay them all the attention they give
to the visible guests.

There is in Jamaica an institution, established in 1836, and called
the Mico Institution; it is named after its founder, Madame Mico, who
left a large sum of money to purchase, (or rather to ransom, the one
being a Christian act, the other a sin against the Holy Ghost, who
expressly forbids such traffic;) thus having corrected myself, I will
resume. Madame Mico left this money to ransom the English who were in
bondage to the Algerines; if there were any left, it was to be devoted
to the instruction of the colored people in the British Islands; at
this institution, six adults, men and women, are prepared for teachers.
Whole number taught since the commencement 485—there is a day school for
children, 29 is the regular number—whole number 2,491—Sabbath Schools 9,
whole number taught 6,654—the adults and the Sunday scholars have to pay
one Mack a month. Besides the Mico establishment, there are in Jamaica 27
Church Missionary Schools, where 2,461 children are taught gratis. Adult
schools, 5—whole number taught, 475. Sabbath Schools 14—whole number
taught, 1,952. London Missionary Society Schools, 16—whole number taught
not ascertained. National Schools, 38—whole number taught, 2,500.

The Wesleyan, Presbyterian and Moravian schools, besides these; it is
supposed there are private schools where three or four thousand are
educated in the city of Kingston, and twice that number in the streets,
without the means of education. All the children and adults taught in
the above named schools, are taxed £1 a year, except the English Church
school, this is the most liberal. The Rev. Mr. Horton, a Baptist minister
in Kingston, told me he had sent 90 children away from the Baptist
school, because they did not bring their money. It is sufficient to say
they had it not to bring!

Most of the people of Jamaica are emancipated slaves, many of them are
old, worn out, and degraded. Those who are able to work, have yet many
obstacles to contend with, and very little to encourage them; every
advantage is taken of their ignorance; the same spirit of cruelty is
opposed to them as held them for centuries in bondage; even religious
teaching is bartered for their hard earnings, while they are allowed
but 33 cents a day, and are told if they will not work for that, they
shall not work at all; an extortionary price is asked of them for every
thing they may wish to purchase, even their Bibles are sold to them at
a large advance on the first purchase. Where are their apologists, if
they are found wanting in the strict morals that Christians ought to
practice? Who kindly says forgive them when they err? “forgive them, this
is the bitter fruit of slavery.” Who has integrity sufficient to hold
the balance when these poor people are to be weighed? Yet their present
state is blissful compared with slavery. Many of the farmers bring their
produce twenty or thirty miles. Some have horses or poneys, but most of
them bring their burdens on their heads. As I returned from St. Andrews
mountain, where I had been sent for by a Mr. Rose, I was overtaken by
a respectable looking man, on horseback; we rode about ten miles in
company. The story he told me of the wrongs he and his wife had endured
while in slavery, are too horrible to narrate. My heart sickens when I
think of it. He asked me many questions, such as where I came from? why
I came to that Island? where had I lived? &c.—I told him I was sent for
by one of the missionaries to help him in his school. Indeed, said he,
our color need the instruction. I asked him why the colored people did
not hire themselves?—we would be very glad to, he replied, but our money
is taken from us so fast we cannot. Sometimes they say we must all bring
1 £; to raise this, we have to sell at a loss, or to borrow, so that we
have nothing left for ourselves, the macaroon hunters take all—this is
a nickname they give the missionaries and the class-leaders—a cutting
sarcasm this! Arrived at a like meow tavern about a mile from Kingston, I bade the
man adieu, and stopped for my guide. The inn-keeper kindly invited me in.
He asked me several questions. I asked him as many. How do the people get
along said I, since the emancipation? The negroes, he replied, will have
the Island in spite of the devil. Do not you see how they live, and how
much they can bear? we cannot do so. This man was an Englishman, with
a large family of mulatto children. In May, the 18th, I attended the
Baptist missionary meeting in Queen St. Chapel. The house was crowded.
Several ministers spoke of the importance of sending the gospel to
Africa; they complimented the congregation on their liberality the last
year, when they gave one hundred pounds sterling; they hoped this year
they would give five hundred pounds, as there were five thousand members
at the present time. There was but one colored minister on the stand.
It is generally the policy of these missionaries to have the sanction
of colored ministers, to all their assessments and taxes. The colored
people give more readily, and are less suspicious of imposition, if one
from themselves recommends the measure. This the missionaries understand
very well, and know how to take advantage of it. Wednesday, June 22d and
23d, the colored Baptists held their missionary meeting, the number of
ministers, colored and mulattoes was 18, the colored magistrates were
present. The resolutions that were offered were unanimously accepted, and
every thing was done in love and harmony.—After taking up a contribution,
they concluded with song and prayer, and returned home, saying jocosely,
they would turn macaroon hunters.—Mack is the name of a small coin in
circulation at Jamaica. I called, on my return, at the market and counted
the different stalls. For vegetables and poultry, 196, all numbered, and
under cover; besides 70 on the ground. These are all attended by colored
women. The market is conveniently arranged, as they can close the gates
and leave all safe. There are 19 stalls for fresh fish, 18 for pork,
30 for beef, 18 for turtle. These are all regular built markets, and
all kept by colored men and women. These are all in one place. Besides,
others may be found, as with us, all over the city. Thus it may be hoped,
they are not the lying, stupid set of beings they have been called, but
are enterprising and quick in their perceptions, determined to possess
themselves, and to possess property besides, and quite able to take
care of themselves. They wished to know why I was so inquisitive about
them, I told them we have heard in America that you are lazy, and that
emancipation has been no benefit to you; I wish to inform myself of the
truth respecting you, and give a true representation of you on my return.
Am I right? More than two hundred people were around me listening to what
I said. They thanked me heartily, I gave them some tracts, and told them
if it so pleased God, I would come back to them, and bring them some
more books, and try what could be done with some of the poor children to
make them better. I then left them, and went to the East market, where
there are thousands of all kinds and nations. The Jews and Spanish looked
at me very black. The colored people gathered around me, I gave them
little books and tracts, and told them I hoped to see them again.

There are in this street upwards of a thousand, young women and children,
living in sin of every kind. From thence, I went to the gaol, where
were 17 men, but no women—in the house of correction were three hundred
culprits. They are taken from there to work on plantations. Then I
went to the admiral’s house, where the emigrants find a shelter until
they can find employment, then they work and pay for their passage.
Many leave their homes and come to Jamaica, under the impression that
they are to have their passage free, and, on reaching the Island, are
to be found until they can provide for themselves. How the mistake
originated, I am not able to say, but on arriving here, strangers, poor,
and unacclimated, the debt for passage-money is hard and unexpected; it
is remarkable that wherever they come from, whether fresh from Africa,
from the other Islands, from the South or from New England, they all
feel deceived on this point. I called on many Americans and found them
poor and discontented, rueing the day they left their country, where,
notwithstanding many obstacles, their parents had lived and died, which
they had helped to conquer with their toil and blood.

“Now shall their children stray abroad and starve in foreign lands.”—I
left America November 16th, 1840, in the ship Scion, Captain Mansfield,
bound for Jamaica, freighted with ice and machinery for the silk factory.
There were on board a number of handicraft-men and other passengers. We
sailed on Monday afternoon, from Charlestown, Mass. It rained continually
until Saturday. Sunday the 23d was a fine day. Mr. De Grass, a young
colored clergyman, was invited to perform divine service, which he did
with much propriety; he spoke of the dangers we had escaped, and the
importance of being prepared to meet our God, (he died of fever about
three weeks after arriving at Jamaica,) some who were able to attend came
on deck and listened to him with respect, while others seemed to look
on in derision; these spent the afternoon and evening in card-playing.
About twelve at night, a storm commenced; on Monday we were in great
peril; the storm continued until Friday the 27th. On that day a sail was
seen at some distance making towards us, the captain judging her to be a
piratical vessel, ordered the women and children below, and the men to
prepare for action—the pirates were not inclined to hazard an engagement;
when they saw the deck filled with armed men they left us. Thus were
we preserved from the storm and from the enemy. Sabbath, 29th, divine
service, our attention was directed to the goodness of God in sparing us.

Monday,—and are we mortals still alive. Tuesday,—Thus far the Lord
has led us on. Wednesday.—Thus far his power prolongs our days.
Thursday—December 3d, to-day made Turks Island. Friday.—This day had
a view of Hayti, its lofty mountains presented a sublime prospect.
Saturday—a glance we had of Cuba. Sunday—December 6th, at six o’clock
in the evening, dropped anchor at St. Anne harbor Jamaica. We blessed
the Lord for his goodness, in sparing us to see the place of our
destination; and here I will mention my object in visiting Jamaica. I
hoped that I might aid (in some small degree) to raise up and encourage
the emancipated inhabitants, and teach the young children to read and
work, to fear God and put their trust in their Savior. Mr. Whitmarsh and
his friend came on board and welcomed us. On Tuesday we went on shore to
see the place and the people; my intention had been to go directly to
Kingston, but the people urged me so to stay with them that I thought it
my duty to comply, and wrote to Mr. Ingraham to that effect. I went first
to see the minister, Mr. Abbot, thought, as he was out, I had better wait
his return. The people promised to pay me for my services for them, or
to send me to Kingston. When Mr. Abbot returned he made me an offer I
readily accepted.—As I lodged in the house of one of the class-leaders,
I attended her class a few times, when I learned the method, I stopped.
She then commenced her authority, and gave me to understand if I did
not comply, I should not have any pay from that society. I spoke to her
of the necessity of being born of the spirit of God, before we became
members of the church of Christ, and told her I was sorry to see the
people blinded in such a way. She was very angry with me, and soon
accomplished her end, by complaining of me to the minister, and I soon
found I was to be dismissed, unless I would yield obedience to this
class-leader. I told the minister that I did not come there to be guided
by a poor foolish woman. He then told me that I had spoken something
about the necessity of moral conduct in church members. I told him I had,
and in my opinion I was sorry to see it so much neglected. He replied,
that he hoped I would not express myself so except to him; they have the
gospel, he continued, and let them come into the church. I do not approve
of women societies; those destroyed the world’s convention; the American
women have too many of them. We talked one hour. He paid me for the
time I had been there; I continued till Jan. with the same opinion that
something must be done for the elevation of the children, and it is for
that I labor. On the Sabbath the minister from the pulpit spoke unkindly
of me. This was in January. I am sorry to say the meeting house is more
like a play house, than a place of worship. The pulpit stands about the
middle of the building, behind are about six hundred children that belong
to the society; there they are placed for Sabbath School, and there they
remain until service is over, playing all the time. The house is crowded
with the aged and the young, the most part of them bare-footed. Some have
on bonnets, but most of the women wear straw hats such as our men wear. I
gave several Bibles away, not knowing that I was hurting the ministers’
sale, the people buy them of him at a great advance. I gave up my school
at St. Ann, and on the 18th of March departed for Kingston, but took the
fever and was obliged to remain until the 7th of April. The people of St.
Ann fulfilled their promise which they made, to induce me to stop with
them—on the 11th of April I arrived at Kingston; and was conducted to the
Mico institution, where Mr. Ingraham directed me to find him; he had lost
his pulpit and his school, but Mr. Venning the teacher kindly received
me. I stayed there longer than expected; the next morning he kindly sent
one of the young men with me to the packet for my baggage. I then called
on the American Consul, he told me he was very glad to see me for such
a purpose as I had in view in visiting Jamaica, but he said it was a
folly for the Americans to come to the Island to better their condition;
he said they came to him every day praying him to send them home. He
likewise mentioned to me the great mortality amongst the emigrants.
This same day I saw Mr. O——, one of our missionaries, who wished me to
accompany him forty miles into the interior of the country. This same
day I saw Mr. Henshaw. On Saturday the 17th I received a letter from Fem
Hill, in the county of St. Andrews, to come and assist Mr. Ross in one of
the Mico schools; they sent for me and I went to see them, but took no
part in the school. I saw Mr. Henshaw there. The day he left Jamaica for
the United States, I begged him to tell the colored people of America not
to go to Jamaica, for they would find themselves deceived. After a week
I returned to Kingston with my mind fully settled what to do. I spent
three weeks at the Mico establishment, and three weeks with my colored
friends from America. On the 21st of April, I called to see Mr. Horton, a
minister. He was much surprised to see me, and had much to say about my
color, and showed much commiseration for my misfortune at being so black.
My personal narrative I have placed last in this pamphlet, as of least
consequence. I flatter myself my voyage to Jamaica has not been in vain.
A door of usefulness seems opened to me there, with a zealous friend. And
with the aid of the benevolent, I propose to establish at Kingston, or
in the vicinity, an asylum for the orphan and the out-cast, where they
may be taught without money and without price. To effect this, I have
returned to this country to solicit aid, and trust I shall not ask in
vain. The colored people of these United States are induced to remove to
Jamaica, in consequence of the flattering offers made to them, to induce
them to emigrate. Since my return they have been inquisitive to learn
from me something respecting the place, and the people I have been among.
For these inquiries I have written this book, that they may have the
advantage of what information I have collected, and knowing the truth,
they may no longer be deceived.

                                                            NANCY PRINCE.

NOTE. On page 9, line 21, it is said that there are six adults preparing
for teachers in the Mico institution; it should have said 15; and that
the whole number of teachers so prepared is 485—but the number is not
really known. In this institution none are received except they can read
and write, and bring good recommendations of their piety. A number have
finished, and are teachers in different parts of the Island.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The West Indies: Being a Description
of the Islands, Progress of Christia, by Nancy Gardner Prince

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE WEST INDIES ***

***** This file should be named 63216-0.txt or 63216-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/6/3/2/1/63216/

Produced by Mary Glenn Krause and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by the
Library of Congress)

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
